# Analyzing-the-performance-of-different-TCP-Variants-in-Wireless-Ad-hoc-Networks
Performance analysis of different TCP variants in Wireless Ad-hoc Networks under different routing protocols and change in speed of mobile nodes.

## Abstract
TCP [Transmission Control Protocol] is a connection-oriented protocol. This indicates a connection is mounted and maintained until the packages at each end have finished replacing messages. The importance of this protocol is its diverse congestion management mechanisms that manipulate TCP sending rate and makes TCP react to congestion alerts. This is a transport layer protocol that works with the internet Protocol [IP – complements tat network layer] which defines how gadgets send packets of data to each other. In this project, performing a comparative analysis of TCP variants like TCP Tahoe, TCP Reno, TCP New Reno, TCP Vegas, and TCP Sack over different routing protocols like AODV, DSDV, and DSR considering factors such as Packet Delivery Ratio [PDR], Delay [in ms], and Throughput [in Mbps] while the mobile nodes are in motion [considering different speeds] using the NS-2 Network Simulator. 

#### Keywords
Transmission Control Protocol [TCP]; TCP Variants; Destination-Sequenced Distance-Vector [DSDV]; Ad-hoc On-demand Distance Vector [AODV]; Dynamic Source Routing [DSR]; NS-2 [Network Simulation Software]

## Requirements
1. Linux Distribution (Ubuntu)
2. NS-2 Network Simulator
3. AWK Script Handler

TCL Script - To simulate our network environment; 
AWK Script - To analyze the data generated by network environment

## Parameters for Analysis
1. Packet Delivery Ratio [PDR]
2. Throughput
3. End-to-End [ETE] Delay

## Network Variations
1. TCP Variants               : Tahoe, Reno, New Reno, Vegas, Sack, and Linux
2. Wireless Routing Protocols : AODV, DSDV, and DSR
3. Mobility Speeds            : 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 meters per second

## Setting up TCP Source Agents
1. TCP Tahoe    : [new Agent/TCP]
2. TCP Reno     : [new Agent/TCP/Reno]
3. TCP New Reno : [new Agent/TCP/Newreno]
4. TCP Vegas    : [new Agent/TCP/Vegas]
5. TCP Sack     : [new Agent/TCP/Sack1]
6. TCP Linux    : [new Agent/TCP/Linux]

## Setting up TCP Sink Agents
1. TCP Sack         : [new Agent/TCPSink/Sack1]
2. TCP Linux        : [new Agent/TCPSink/Sack1/DelAck]
3. All other agents : [new Agent/TCPSink]

## Setting up Routing Protocols
1. AODV : set val(rp) AODV
2. DSDV : set val(rp) DSDV
3. DSR  : set val(rp) DSR
<br/>We also need to add few more lines for DSR routing protocol.<br/>
This is to choose the IFQ differently for DSR routing to CMUPriQueue.<br/>
if {$val(rp) == "DSR"} {<br/>
    set val(ifq) CMUPriQueue<br/>
} else {<br/>
    set val(ifq) Queue/DropTail/PriQueue<br/>
}<br/>

## Conclusion
Analyzing the Performance of different TCP Variants in Wireless Ad-hoc Networks using different Routing Protocols is done successfully. Considering the factors like PDR, Average Throughput, and Average ETE Delay using different routing protocols like AODV, DSDV, and DSR with different mobile node speeds. By evaluation of analytical values, it is clearly observed that TCP Vegas is best in AODV routing protocol with no packet loss and very low average ETE delay but slightly lower average throughput than other TCP variants. TCP Tahoe, Reno, New Reno, and Sack are top performers in DSDV routing protocol but all protocols tend to fail quickly with increase in speed of mobile nodes. Again, TCP Tahoe is the best performer in DSR routing protocol with consistent PDR, and very low average ETE delay but slightly lower average throughput. By this analysis, we can understand how TCP variants perform with change in routing protocols and varying the speed of mobile nodes.

## Guide
#### Please refer the report [Final Report.pdf] in "Documents" folder to get the better understanding of this project.

#### SPECIAL THANKS TO "SASTRA DEEMED TO BE UNIVERSITY" [Official Webpage](https://www.sastra.edu/)
